
Final Project Proposal
CS 747 (Fall 2023)
Team Members: Sreeja Puthumana - G01360679 | Pratish Mashankar - G01354094
Title: Multilingual Hate Speech Detection Using Modified Implementation of BERT Reference article: BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding1.
  
Proposal
We propose to develop an advanced multilingual hate speech detection model after reproducing an enhanced version of BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) by incorporating
additional dense layers and experimenting with various regularization techniques. Our primary objective is to shift the historical focus from predominantly English sentence classification to a more inclusive
multilingual approach. We propose to conclude the project by also performing a robustness test on the model.
  
We aim to achieve state-of-the-art results using the MLMA Hate Speech dataset introduced by Ousidhoum et. al.2 Our evaluation will rely on established metrics, including Accuracy and F1 scores.
Additionally, we will benchmark our model against the approach outlined in ‘Hate speech detection: a comparison of mono and multilingual transformer model with cross-language evaluation’3 by Ghosh et al.
one of whose drawbacks presented a lower F1 score for ‘hate speech label’, which we plan to tackle by handling class imbalance.
  
Reference(s):
1. Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training
of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In Proceedings of the 2019
Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 4171–4186,
Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.
2. Nedjma Ousidhoum, Zizheng Lin, Hongming Zhang, Yangqiu Song, and Dit-Yan Yeung. 2019.
Multilingual and Multi-Aspect Hate Speech Analysis. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 4675–4684, Hong Kong, China.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
3. Koyel Ghosh and Dr. Apurbalal Senapati. 2022. Hate speech detection: a comparison of mono
and multilingual transformer model with cross-language evaluation. In Proceedings of the 36th
Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information and Computation, pages 853–865, Manila,
Philippines. Association for Computational Linguistics
